We've just done our first modeling task with wearable data.
It took us a while to get here,
we had to first learn what an accelerometer
was and how it collected information about movement,
and we had to learn about signal processing to
build the features that we used in our model.
At the end of the day, we were able to build a pretty successful three class classifier
using a random forest and by doing proper hyperparameter optimization,
but this problem is about as easy as it gets.
If you're looking for a challenge,
go to the original data set and remember that it actually has four classes: running,
walking, high-intensity biking, and low-intensity biking.
You could try to build a classifier that can distinguish
between the high-intensity and low-intensity cycling classes.
You'll also find a PPG signal in the data set,
which might help you discriminate between these two classes.
You might also find that it's impossible,
maybe there's not enough information in these sensors to solve this problem,
or maybe the data set wasn't collected as rigorously as we need.
Ultimately, low resistance and high resistance is subjective,
and the data set description even notes,
"Each participant was free to set
the pace of the treadmill and pedal rate on the bike so that they
were comfortable and also to change these settings or stop the exercise at any time."
More often than not, this is the reality of real-world data science problems,
where you're doomed to fail before you even begin,
you just don't know that until after you try.
The key here is to not get frustrated when this happens and to maybe
do some leg work before you begin a problem to make sure that it's more feasible.
We'll continue our modeling efforts in the next lesson with the EKG signal.